From: Rob Hoitt <rs_rob@usa.net>
To: <star-wars@iol.ie>
Subject: Spolier? This may be good...
Date: 14 January 2001 22:59

I got this by E-Mail recently... I don't know how legit my data is, but it
sure looks convincing... My source is fairly dependable... Lemme know what you
think.

Slainte!
-Rob

--------------------------------------------------------------------------
***PLOT SYNOPSIS***
(events in chronological order)

- Opening Scroll

Ten years have passed since the events in The Phantom Menace...

The opening crawl tells us that Queen Amidala has been replaced as Queen of
Naboo by Queen Jamillia. She now goes by the name Padmé Naberrie Amidala, and
serves as Senator of Naboo within the Galactic Senate on Coruscant (she is
respectfully referred to as "M'lady" throughout the film). We also learn of
Count Dooku, a venerated Jedi Master who is one of the "lost twenty"; He left
the Jedi Order.

We also learn that Chancellor Palpatine is planning on building a Clone army
through legislation in the Senate.... 


I: The Events on Coruscant
- Assassination? / A clone army

The film begins as Naboo's Royal Starship enters Coruscant, accompanied by
Naboo fighters. At the landing ramp, as Padmé and her protectors exit the
Royal Starship.....there is a large explosion! The ship is destroyed, and
several lie dead.... But Padmé wasn't the one who exited the ship; It was her
handmaiden, Cordé. Padmé, who was flying alongside the Royal Starship in a
Naboo starfighter, runs to the dying handmaiden... Cordé dies in Padmé's
arms.

Padmé was on her way to vote on Chancellor Palpatine's proposal for a Clone
defense force, but now she wonders whether she should go on; Cordé's death
shakes her. At the urging of Captain Typho and R2-D2 (who were not caught in
the explosion), Padmé goes on to the Senate. They don't know it, but bounty
hunter Zam Wesell was behind the explosion!

Meanwhile, Chancellor Palpatine (he was the person who hired Zam) recieves
word from Zam that Padmé has been successfully killed (Zam thinks that Cordé
was Padmé), so Palpatine announces the "tragic and disturbing news" that
Senator Padmé has been assassinated... Palpatine says that the vote on the
Clone defense force proposal is even more urgent now, because had Senator
Padmé the protection she needed, she would not have met a violent end...so too
could the Republic meet such an end without proper protection, Palpatine
says... Bail Organa has a few brief scenes at this point.

The proposal passes, and the Republic begins mass-producing clones; These
clones will eventually come to be known as Clonetroopers, and they will
largely replace current Republic defense forces.

Jar Jar Binks who is now a "Representative of the Gungan people" stands
alongside Senator Amidala in the Senate, and he also has some brief scenes at
this point.

- Dark tidings

At some point, Darth Sidious meets with his new Sith apprentice, Darth
Tyranus, on Coruscant. Tyranus is really the alter-ego of Count Dooku! Under
Sidious' command, Tyranus has allied himself with an alien named Poggle the
Lesser; Poggle and his species (Lessers) build droid armies and sell them out
to organizations like the Trade Federation. Tyranus and Poggle plan on
amassing an army comprised of advanced "Super" Battle Droids combined with the
Trade Federation's droid forces to destroy the Jedi Knights.... 

Apparently, now that the Senate has given his alter-ego, Chancellor Palpatine,
permission to build a clone army, Sidious appoints Count Dooku to be in charge
of producing this clone army on Kamino. Dooku decides that Jango Fett, a
bounty hunter who works for him, should be the genetic blueprint for the army.
Jango requests something from Dooku in return; the first clone created out of
him- A young boy he names Boba Fett and takes as his son...

- Assassins in the shadows...

Senator Padmé now realizes that her life is in grave danger, and she doesn't
believe that her personal body guard, Captain Typho, can offer enough
protection. The Jedi Council appoints skilled Jedi Knight, Obi-Wan Kenobi, and
his apprentice, Anakin Skywalker, to protect the young Senator (one reason
being that they are like family to her).

At some point, there is another assassination attempt on Padmé's life by Zam;
Obi-Wan and Anakin prevent this, however, and they chase after Zam through the
streets of Coruscant...

- Nightclub / Enter Jango Fett

Obi-Wan and Anakin eventually track Zam Wesell down to a seedy Coruscant
nightclub. At the entrance, the two Jedi are stopped by an imposing alien
bouncer. Obi-Wan uses the Force on the bouncer ("You will let us in..."), and
he steps aside, letting them in. Inside the very flashy and colorful
nightclub, scantily-clad women abound. One person in the bar, named Elian
Sleazebaggano, stirs up trouble (it is possible that he harrasses a
waitress).

Obi-Wan and Anakin eventually find Zam and confront her in an alley. They
attempt to interrogate her, but before she can answer their questions, she is
shot by a deadly Kyber Dart from the shadows... Jango Fett shot her with the
dart, and now that the information she held is protected, Jango escapes back
into the shadows.

- Dex's Diner & the Kyber Dart

As Obi-Wan pulls the fatal Kyber Dart out of Zam's body, he tells Anakin that
he knows exactly the person who can help them.
Obi-Wan and Anakin go to a bar called "Dex's Diner" where they meet an old
connection of his, Dexter Jettster. Dex tells Obi-Wan that the Kyber Dart that
killed Zam is actually called a Kaminoan Kyber Dart, and it is only
manufactured on the ocean planet Kamino....


II: Anakin and Padmé on Naboo
- Jedi Council Meeting

After an emergency meeting of the Jedi Council, Anakin Skywalker is commanded
to accompany Senator Padmé to her home planet of Naboo, where they believe she
will be safe.

Meanwhile, the Jedi Council confers with Obi-Wan about Zam Wesell and the
mysterious Jango... Obi-Wan tells them that Kamino is the only planet where
Kyber Darts can be found; he suspects that there's something larger and more
sinister on Kamino.

The Jedi Council dispatches Obi-Wan to journey to Kamino to investigate who
was really behind the assassination attempts on Senator Padmé....

- Anakin and Padmé get closer / Padmé's family

On Naboo, Padmé and Anakin are on what might as well be a vacation. Both are
enjoying the peace of Naboo. Padmé and Anakin walk through the middle-class
areas where Padmé grew up. The two young friends' close friendship begins to
evolve into romance.... Padmé introduces Anakin to her family (parents Jobal
and Ruwee, and three sisters including Ryoo and Pooja). Anakin spends the day
with the Naberrie's at their country home in the Naboo swamps and moves into a
guest room to spend the night.


III: Obi-Wan's Investigation
- Jedi Temple archives

On Coruscant, at the Jedi Temple, Obi-Wan and a wise Jedi librarian named
Madame Jocasta Nu, walk through the Jedi Library; a great hall filled with
ancient Jedi relics and historical artifacts. The two discuss the implication
of Kamino in the attempts on Padmé's life; Count Dooku, a venerated Jedi
Master who dissented from the Council and left the order, is an appointed
royal magistrate on the planet. 

Obi-Wan and Jocasta come to a bust of Dooku, which is a testament to how
widely respected Dooku was in the order. Jocasta tells Obi-Wan that Dooku is
one of only twenty Jedi who have left the order. They also discuss the
possibility that the venerated Jedi Master may be behind the assassination
attempts and may have turned to the Dark Side. Jocasta tells Obi-Wan that if
Dooku has indeed turned to the Dark Side, he would be a great threat to the
Republic.

- Kamino / Plans for a Clone army

Kamino is one giant ocean; rain constantly pours from the dark sky. The cities
are elevated above the water on large poles that are built into the ocean
floor. The native Kaminoans are a tall fish-like people.

Obi-Wan is greeted by Lama Su, the Kaminoan Prime Minister. Lama Su tells
Obi-Wan that the Kaminoans were comissioned to build a Clone army by someone
called "Master Sido-Dyas" who they believed is the head of the Jedi Council.
Lama Su shows Obi-Wan the cloning facilities on the planet; a laboratory, a
clone hatchery....

Obi-Wan reports to Mace Windu and Yoda with the news; They tell Obi-Wan to
discover the identity of the imposter, Sido-Dyas.... Mace warns that a war is
brewing....


Obi-Wan eventually finds Jango Fett on the planet and discovers that Jango is
to be the genetic blueprint for this clone army. He also learns that Count
Dooku has in fact turned to the Dark Side and goes under the alias of "Darth
Tyranus"!

- Obi-Wan vs. Jango in the rain!

Obi-Wan follows Jango to his personal ship, Slave 1, at which is waiting his
"son", Boba Fett. Obi-Wan shows himself, and a vicious fight erupts! Click
here to read a shot-by-shot description of the battle!

Jango escapes to his ship and takes off....but not before Obi-Wan is able to
tag the vessel with a tracer.

Obi-Wan decides to leave the planet and follow Jango to find out where he'll
end up.... Obi-Wan leaves Kamino, tailing Jango through space...


IV: Return to Tatooine
- Vision of the future

On Naboo, Anakin tosses and turns in his guest room bed... He has a disturbing
vision of his mother in great danger on Tatooine. That morning, Padmé walks
into Anakin's room and sees him meditating on the balcony. Anakin tells her of
his vision and his desire to return to Tatooine in order to prevent this
possible danger to his mother, Shmi.

At the same time, there is another assassination attempt made on Padmé...she
barely escapes. Anakin decides that he should travel to Tatooine to find his
mother, and that Padmé should go with him because she will be safer there.
Anakin contacts the Jedi Council and tells them that he is taking Padmé to
Tatooine. The Council is obstinate in telling him that he must not take Padmé
to Tatooine because they believe she will be more open to danger there. Anakin
disregards the Council's warnings.

Anakin and Padmé journey to Tatooine, and their relationship continues to
develop...

- Anakin confronts Watto

In Mos Espa, Anakin goes to Watto's Junkyard but finds that it has been closed
down. After searching the city, he eventually finds Watto; he's lost
everything he owned due to heavy gambling debts, and he is now penniless.
Anakin interrogates him as to the whereabouts of his mother. Watto (now
intimidated by his former slave) tells him that, due to his debts, he was
forced to free Shmi, and that she has married a man named Cliegg Lars and
lives with him and his son Owen (from a previous relationship) on their
moisture farm in the desert.

- The Lars Homestead

Anakin and Padmé arrive at the Lars farm, and find Cliegg Lars there with his
son Owen, and Owen's girlfriend, Beru Whitesun. Anakin converses with his new
step-family and finds C-3PO, still without coverings, in the Lars garage.

Cliegg and Owen tell Anakin that Shmi went out in the morning to gather a
certain crop that only grows on moisture vaporators, but she hasn't returned
yet. Eventually, a search party is assembled. Anakin borrows a swoop
(speederbike) and drives out into the desert to find her, leaving Padmé in
Cliegg and Owen's temporary care. As the twin suns set, he comes upon a Jawa
who points Anakin in Shmi's direction.

- Shmi dies...

Anakin finally sees Shmi in the distance being confronted by a small group of
Sand People; The Sandpeople are in the process of beating the poor woman to
death. Anakin intervenes and drives off the Tusken Raiders. Shmi is barely
alive as she is reunited with her son after ten years. They exchange some
last, tearful words, and Shmi dies in Anakin's arms... Anakin is utterly
devastated.


V: Obi-Wan on Jango's trail
- Asteroid chase

Meanwhile, half-way across the galaxy, Obi-Wan still follows the trace on
Jango in space... But soon, Jango realizes that Obi-Wan is following him.
Jango takes Slave 1 into an asteroid field to try and lose the persistent Jedi
Knight.

Although Obi-Wan isn't the skilled pilot that Anakin is, he dodges asteroid
after asteroid... Jango makes manuevers.... Obi-Wan barely makes it through
the asteroid field... But Jango believes that he has shaken Obi-Wan... He
travels on.

- Arrival on Geonosis / Republic in danger!

Obi-Wan, still in one piece, follows the trace to a rocky, industrial planet
called Geonosis; A large Droid Control Ship looms in orbit. Obi-Wan realizes
that the Niemoidians are involved and that the conspiracy runs deep!

He lands on the surface and discovers that Geonosis is run by an evil alien
named Poggle the Lesser. Poggle and his species (Geonosians) build droid
armies on this planet and sell them out to organizations like the Trade
Federation.

Obi-Wan sneaks through Geonosis and eventually comes to a gigantic stalagmite
which has been hollowed into a tower; he enters through a small window.
Inside, Obi-Wan sneaks around some more... He sees the Super Battle Droids
being built... He somehow learns that Poggle is in league with Count Dooku and
the Niemoidians, and that they are planning to amass a huge army consisting of
Poggle's advanced Super Battle Droids and the Federation's droid forces.

Obi-Wan realizes the incredible danger that the Galactic Republic is in, and
he immediately contacts the Jedi Council. By this point, the Republic has
already accumulated a formidable Clone army. The Council sends out a
contingent of hundreds of Jedi Knights and Republic Clonetroopers led by Mace
Windu and Yoda to Poggle's planet in order to meet this great threat.

Obi-Wan also contacts Chancellor Palpatine via hologram, and reports on his
findings; he tells the Chancellor that war is inevitable. He must send out the
Clonetroopers with the Jedi forces to Geonosis. Palpatine reluctantly agrees
and thanks the worn Jedi Knight for putting his life on the line in this
covert operation.

Little does Obi-Wan know that he has just given his whereabouts to Darth
Sidious! Palpatine contacts Count Dooku and Poggle as Sidious via hologram and
tells them of Obi-Wan's presence. He commands them to find the Jedi, tie him
up at an arena on the planet, and feed him to the Reeks (demonic, bull-like
creatures)!


VI: The Great Clone War Begins
- Anakin's dark deed / To Geonosis

Back on Tatooine; At the Lars Farm, Padmé finds C-3PO and adds gray metal
coverings to his "naked" body, completing the droid Anakin created...

Meanwhile, Anakin has meditated beside his mother's dead body for the entire
night...

As the twin suns rise, he gets up and walks through the desert. He eventually
comes to a Tusken mother playing with her children. The children notice Anakin
and smile at him. Anakin continues to walk towards the Tusken family. When the
Tusken mother notices him, Anakin ignites his lightsaber.....and mercilessly
kills each one of them!

Anakin trudges back to the Lars Farm... It is possible that Cliegg is wounded
due to an encounter with Sandpeople while searching for Shmi himself....

Somehow or another, Anakin reveals Shmi's gruesome fate to Owen, Cliegg, and
Padmé (or maybe not?)... It is possible that this is where Owen's deep
resentment of Anakin is first ignited.

Anakin eventually recieves a very fuzzy and distorted hologram message from
Obi-Wan!... Anakin can barely hear Obi-Wan as he talks... Obi-Wan tells Anakin
that he MUST come to Geonosis immediately because a battle is about to begin
and the very Republic is at stake!... Anakin is in a sore emotional state, and
not up to traveling to Geonosis...

Padmé, ever the ardent Republic defender, convinces Anakin that their duty to
the Republic lies above all else, and that they should go to Geonosis.
Reluctantly, Anakin agrees.

The completed C-3PO joins Anakin, Padmé, and R2 as they board their Nubian
cruiser and leave Tatooine for Geonosis....

On Geonosis, shortly after contacting Anakin, Obi-Wan is attacked by droids!
He valiantly tries to fight them off, but he is eventually captured. Count
Dooku orders him to be taken to the arena, and tied up to a pole....

- Jedi assault / Droid Control Ship

The Jedi army arrives at Geonosis!
Every Jedi Master on the Council, hundreds of Jedi Knights, and hundreds of
Clonetroopers are in the army, ready to combat the droid army that awaits
them.

When they spot the Droid Control Ship in orbit, Ki-Adi-Mundi and Plo Koon
board the ship and lead a raid against the Niemoidian forces inside.
Eventually, the Jedi defeat the Federation forces, taking control of the
Ship...

The main Republic forces land on the planet...

- Arena battle / Mace vs. Jango

Meanwhile, on Geonosis;

Dooku, Poggle, a Niemoidian, and Jango Fett are at the arena, watching slaves
get eaten by Reeks...a preview for the main event: Obi-Wan Kenobi's own
scheduled demise in the jaws of a Reek. Obi-Wan is tied to a pole in the
center of the arena....

Just then, the Jedi Knights arrive, led by Mace Windu. The Jedi realize
however, that they have fallen into a trap when Poggle's advanced droid army
reveals itself! The droid forces are far greater than the Jedi had imagined,
and the droids outnumber the Jedi.

The Jedi Knights fight valiantly, but seem to be losing...many Jedi Knights
get overwhelmed and killed, left and right. As the battle rages on, Mace Windu
and Jango Fett go one-on-one as a savage Reek beast breaks loose in the arena.
(Click here to read a shot-by-shot description of the battle!). Jango and Mace
fight fiercely, but eventually Mace decapitates Jango, defeating the evil
bounty hunter once and for all.

Meanwhile, the Jedi succeed in freeing Obi-Wan in the arena...

- Battle continues

Outside of the arena, Yoda and other Jedi Masters lead a contingent of Jedi
Knights against Poggle's gigantic droid army.

Anakin and Padmé land in an empty area on Geonosis, away from the fighting...
They have an argument (possibly over Shmi's death and Anakin's reluctance to
fight?)... 3PO comments that he "just doesn't understand human behavior"....

Eventually, Anakin and Padmé join the fighting..... Anakin is reunited with
his master, Obi-Wan.
At some point, Padmé takes command of a contingent of Clonetroopers and fights
her way through the area.... It is possible that she gets seperated from
Anakin....

- Lightsaber duel / The Dark Side

Eventually, Anakin and Obi-Wan come face-to-face with Count Dooku (who
everyone now knows is Darth Tyranus) in one of the Geonosians' droid
factories. The three warriors engage in a lightsaber duel! Although the duel
is two on one, Tyranus more than holds his own against the two powerful Jedi
Knights. Eventually, Obi-Wan gets seperated from the duel, and Tyranus and
Anakin go at it alone. The former Jedi Master is much more powerful than young
Anakin, but Tyranus knows that Anakin is incredibly strong with the Force; he
is more concerned with turning the boy to the Dark Side than killing him.

This duel plays out much like the duel in The Empire Strikes Back. Tyranus
bombards Anakin with tauntings and words of seduction, trying to turn him....

Obi-Wan comes to Anakin's aid! The duel continues, but Tyranus eventually
leaps up and cuts a crane (resembles a large mechanical claw) from the
cieling, trapping Anakin and Obi-Wan. Anakin is struck by the crane, and is
knocked unconcious. Obi-Wan struggles to free himself and his pupil from the
crane, but to no avail. It seems as though Tyranus has won.... Just then, Yoda
shows up. He Force-pushes Tyranus off of a platform, and uses the Force to
lift the machinery off of Anakin and Obi-Wan.

Realizing he's lost the battle, Tyranus flees to his personal Sail Ship and
takes off.


VII: The Ending...
- Victory at a price

As Anakin and Padmé are reunited, Anakin regains conciousness but can barely
stand. Padmé helps him up; both are overjoyed to see the other alive. They
realize that they are deeply in love with each other, and decide to consumate
their now fully evolved relationship in a marriage on Naboo.

Mace and Yoda meet amongst the Clonetroopers and assess the damage; they are
troubled to know that Dooku has indeed turned to the Dark Side and is still
out there plotting his revenge.

- The Jedi Council assesses the casualties

On Coruscant, the Jedi Council convenes. Most of the Masters who served on the
Council are now dead along with hundreds of Jedi Knights who were killed
during the battle on Geonosis. Mace Windu and Yoda face an uphill struggle in
trying to put back the pieces of the Jedi Order, which has been dealt a
substantial blow.

- The Wedding of Anakin and Padmé

Anakin, Obi-Wan, and Padmé return to Naboo victorious. They get married in a
small ceremony beside a lake......

However, Shmi's death still dominates Anakin's mind, and a cloud of guilt
hangs over him... Although it is a moment of joy, both he and Padmé know that
dark times are head for the Republic.

- Sending out the Clonetroopers

Meanwhile, on Coruscant; The Galactic Senate has now seen Chancellor
Palpatine's Clonetroopers in action on Poggle's planet. Palpatine convinces
the Senate that the Clonetroopers won the day, and the Senate gives Palpatine
the green light to replace the entire Republic army with these Clonetroopers.

Palpatine and other senators (including Bail Organa) stand on a platform
watching tens of thousands of Clonetroopers being shipped off to every corner
of the Republic...... Little does anyone know that Palpatine will use these
Clones to enslave the galaxy....

End of film, Credits Roll.
 